My life is defined by one question: in what manner should I want to be? It stands relentlessly in the guise of constant movement. As the world morphs around me, as I strive, fail, and succeed, celebrating and criticizing, creating and destroying, planning and responding, and preoccupying myself with the next thing that flatters or bothers me, what stays constant is that I keep wanting. Once I resolve a want, another want shows up… I can’t resist it. I make attempts at quelling my wants, but isn’t that just another want? And once I finally do quell all my wants… well, I can’t– that’s the point.
I come to ask myself what all of this is all about. It feels like life is an infinite treadmill of bait. So what? I should be able to deal with the idea that nature happens to be quite a really capricious lad, and so, I may as well just shove it, adapt, surf the wave, and get through the show as opposed to wasting time on trying to mold nature to fit my pleasurable way, and figuring that it always finds a way to slip out of my control anyway. I think this sounds quite convincing. But here’s the catch… can I ‘just deal with nature and shove it’ without inflicting on myself an enormity of excess suffering? This questioning causes me to return straight to my original question: ‘In what manner should I want to be?’
Let me approach this issue by starting with two questions. The responses to those questions will lead to the conclusion that it is possible that what I am sensing is not reality. What is the thing that I ‘sense’? I refer to the thing that morphs around me, as I strive, fail, succeed, and so forth. And what is ‘I’? I use this term often, and my life can’t be sensed by ‘I’ without the existence of ‘I’. I have a framework that grapples with both of those questions on definition together. This framework has two constituents: the subject and the absolute. The subject is a figure that is supposed to sense something that’s not itself. The absolute does not sense and it’s the thing that is supposed to be sensed. The issue with this framework is that the subject cannot sense the absolute without something that gives the subject information about the absolute (whether the subject is positioned within, along, or outside the absolute is irrelevant). The subject being able to sense the absolute implies that the subject is given information about the absolute by a subject-absolute interface. I will now assume that in the subject-absolute interaction, ‘I’/‘me’ is the subject and ‘reality’ is the absolute. My conclusion is that certain knowledge of the absolute is impossible without full knowledge regarding both subject and interface. This is to say that it is possible that what I am sensing is not reality; rather, what I am sensing is the information given to me by an interface between me and reality. What is that interface all about? How can I know? I argue that I can’t.
So, what is the manner in which I should want to be? I believe that the correct answer is ‘I cannot be sure’. The reason is that if I cannot even be sure of whether my reality is the reality, it’s impossible to be sure of what my wants are. Still, I strongly believe that ‘I cannot be sure' is not most-practical for choosing my wants. I may therefore benefit from convincing myself to rely on a less-accurate response to the ultimate question: the process of documenting my reasoning from observations, then looking at the pieces together and formulating a decision that leads me to what I want. Alright, so what is it that I want? What I want is what I am already setting out to get. And what is the thing that I am setting out to get? It’s the thing that I want. Then, what is it that I should want? It’s what I should get. Now, what is it that I should get? Ok, so the point here is that ‘(not) wanting’ and ‘(not) getting’ lie at the center of my decision-making. Let me now search through my observations.
What do I need to keep existing? Well, I don’t know that. But here’s what I know: I regularly want to eat. I regularly want to sleep, eat, breathe air, move around, discover new things, and talk to myself or talk with others. I cannot completely resist or suppress these wants. I’ve also seen that people regularly die when they lack food or air; I therefore make the connection that unstoppable wants are the result of me not wanting to die. But not so quick, because, again, I don’t know for sure whether dying is something I will go through; perhaps, I will never know for sure. Anyways, I do find it useful to make these connections despite uncertainty about their truth; this practice leaves doors open for me to connect new ideas to old ideas. For example, I observe that I experience states of mind suggesting want much more easily than I do ones suggesting getting. I want to resolve this observation, because accepting that ‘want’ drives me ignites a quasi-claustrophobic dread; it interprets life as an indefinite journey to nowhere. What am I even getting out of this? Just an avoidance of ‘death’? There’s something odd about those questions, which is that they quickly reveal themselves to me as manifestations of, again, want. So then, the ‘issue’ is just another case of me wanting ‘something’. This questioning process doesn’t escape want; it only pretends to. My life is driven by wanting, no longer wanting, and getting (which may or may not resolve/create a want).

I will work on refining and expanding these paragraphs in the coming years. For now, I made a partial summary of my thought process above; I also have a few additional assumptions mixed in. I did my best to use as few characters as possible, which may have led to the text appearing cryptographic.

↵ <ins>principle 1: vague absolute</ins>
subject can sense the absolute, is not the absolute ⇒ subject given info by subject-absolute interface
∴ ∄ full knowledge regarding both subject and interface ⇒ ∄ certain knowledge of the absolute.
↵ <ins>principle 2: natural emotional inclination to fear/depression</ins>
riskprep maintains wellbeing, resolution confirms wellbeing ∴ riskprep prioritized above resolution.
↵ <ins>principle 3: autobeing-maintenance</ins>
∄ autoexistence-autosynthesis ⇒ ∄ existor ∴ ∃ existor ⇒ ∃ autoexistence-autosynthesis
∴ (∃ existor) carried by (∃ autoexistence-autosynthesis).

&lt;synthesis&gt; &lt;presynth-(non)sensable&gt; &lt;synth-choice> &lt;post-sc synth&gt;
&lt;{...}: [synth-carrier is: …]&gt; &lt;[|...]: [pss may be: …]&gt; &lt;pscs-comparative pscs-recurrence sense>
existence {occupation, nourishment, defense/reparation} [| (non)general synth-sense {abstraction, pcrs}.
want-resolution synth {observations, pcrs, idea-(un)sequencing} {identifiable want-resolutions [|air/water/food/sunlight, sleeping, exercising, socializing, thinking], want-resolution sc-availability-abundance}.
&lt;autoneosc: an entity’s choice that defines that entity’s new-form self-resynthesis&gt;
entity1ansc responsive to entity2ansc ∴ entity1ansc {entity2ansc}
∴ entity1anscpcrs same as specific-neosynth of entity2anscpcrs
∴ entityset1anscpcrs integrated within anscpcrs-neosynth-pcrs → entityset2anscpcrs.


<br><br>
PS: Most of the writing above was developed within Aug 12-16 and Sep 1, 2025.

<!-- Copyright © Seohyun Hwang 2025. All rights reserved. -->
